Hey hello ladies and gents this my
halogens standing lamp that I think I
showed you before so simply plugs in
here cable to a dimmer unit to the lamp
and at the top there is a linear halogen
lamp there so it's 230 watts produced
about 5,000 lumens of light well I'm
going to show you a 5-minute mod that
you can do that will increase the light
output by nearly 20% perhaps nearly near
a 40% while simultaneously reducing the
energy consumption by 75% so it all
comes down to new lighting technology so
what I'm gonna do is I'm going to swap
out the light bulb and for a more
efficient one the lamp I'm going to be
using it's a double-ended 70 watt metal
halide lamp so it's a 118 millimeters
long and it takes an R 7 s fitting which
is exactly the same as the linear
halogen so we can actually just swap it
out it's a little bit wider but there is
actually enough clearance in the light
fitting to install it metal halide lamps
don't run on normal 200 volt or 230 volt
house current is we need a ballast so
here we are this electronic ballast is
made by philips these go for about 80
quid normally I got it on eBay for I
think four quid plus two quid postage
and it's pretty nice device so what
we'll do is we'll connect this in and
we'll change the lamp okay so the lamp
is held in with these little screw Clips
here so what we'll do we'll just unscrew
those and we'll take the glass cover off
cover comes off
okay there's a little little filling
sort of nipple here on the lamp I'm
going to put this down because I'm not
sure if it'll clear the glass cover so
deal with the dimmer so it's just matter
of unscrewing the dimmer and removing
the wires they see the dimmer circuits
simple potentiometer fuse filter triac
and the Dayak and the AC diode
triggering circuit there so we'll just
remove these wires and plug them into
the ballast hid PV C 0 7 0 / IC DM made
by Philips lift up and you've got some
press down terminal covers so just drop
the connection to the light into the
labeled slots simply push down push the
wire in so now I just do the same thing
for the main supply which goes in like
that there we push down and push in
that's the lamp wire and the mains wire
now connected to these screw terminals
close the flap and we just plug it in
and see what happens
there we go lighting up so there we have
it
the final item 6000 lumen light 470
watts of power a bit of a reduction from
230 and it's a pretty nice light it's
very white this is actually a 4000 K hid
lamp so it's slightly whiter than your
normal halogen but it's still reasonable
it's not blue like those cheap HID
lights that you get in cars and stuff so
this is pretty nice and the only problem
is it takes a little time to warm up it
takes about a minute to come up to full
brightness so it's in that way it's a
bit like your compact fluorescent bulbs
it has a warm up time but the warm up is
a bit more pronounced and the other
problem is is which is actually really
annoying so you have to be very careful
where you choose to put this light is
that if you unplug it like so and then
plug it back in again the light does not
come back on if we look at it it is
completely extinguished and that is
because the lamp is not able to start up
while the lamp is hot so it needs about
two or three minutes of cooldown time
before it will restart and then of
course once it's cooled down and it's
restarted it needs another minute or so
to come up to full power but it cuts
your energy consumption by 75% and it's
pretty nice light so in some cases this
might well be a useful model